we find that you know classical techniques for AI
are thousand times cheaper and a thousand times
faster than geni but when you get to the point
where you might otherwise get a person involved
especially if the classical AI is right on the
confidence bubble where it's pretty sure it's
not a problem but it needs a second pair of eyes
to be sure geni can provide that second pair of
eyes and certainly that's a good tiebreaker
it can take for some kinds of Investigations
when you talk about either anti-money laundering
investigations or fraud alerts or other types of
compliance um activity monitoring the amount
of work that people do and how manual it can
be is just unbelievable it saves a lot of effort
simply to pull all this information from a wide
variety of sources and put it into the form where
it's actionable hi I'm Craig Smith and this is I
on AI in this episode I speak with Peter cousins
the CTO at work Fusion about the company's focus
on intelligent automation and digital workers for
anti-financial Crime Solutions Peter talked about
leveraging generative AI alongside classical
AI for enhanced fraud detection and compliance
particularly in the Realms of sanction screening
adverse media analysis and know your customer
processes within the financial services sector
Peter offered insights into the evolving landscape
of AI technology and combating Financial crime I
hope you find the conversation as interesting as
I did I start by having you introduce yourself
and give uh a little of the background of how
you got to work fusion and then we'll talk about
uh generative Ai and financial services so I'm
Peter cousins I'm the CTO at work fusion um I
have all the product functions in my team from
design and product management to engineering QA
and Cloud operations I've been with the company
for a couple years now um almost three actually
before that I was CTO of bottomline Technologies
which is a half a billion dollar a year SAS
banking software company and before that I
was at IBM after the acquisition of Unica where
I was the CTO and and tell us about work Fusion
what what does uh work Fusion do so work Fusion
is a intelligent automation company that focuses
specifically on what we call our digital workers
which is a series of um AI solution Technologies
for anti-financial Crime so talking about things
like sanction screening um entity screening like
pep and adverse media kyc um and all different
kinds of Investigations and activity monitoring
yeah and because I I've been talking to people
about the use of generative AI in in financial
services and what I've what I've heard is that
um while it's being applied for productivity
gains in in u the back office or in HR functions
uh a lot of financial services uh are not using
it in fraud detection and that sort of thing
for compliance issues is is is that right and
and why is that so I think people naturally are
concerned about um and we call this the middle
office this uh you know anti-financial crime
uh units um they're they're always concerned
about errors they just can't afford really to
make any mistakes at all so they're willing
to sacrifice a little bit of automation for
certainty and the the way many people have
tried to deal with that is just by avoiding
generative AI waiting for it to mature for
but um we increasingly see people willing to use
generative AI in a kind of Triad with people and
you know classic AI functions and so that's where
we think it's the best because you can leverage
it in a kind of panel model to get certainty um
and you know maybe not so much replace classic AI
yet but handle a lot of the things that otherwise
would have gone to people without having to go to
people or to go to people for just final approval
and can you give us a a use case and and describe
when you say digital workers I mean everyone is
talking right now about building agents uh is that
uh are you talking about agents or are you talking
about tools that that humans use so um It's a
combination of both so as much as possible when
we say digital worker we mean that it's capable
of doing a complete job end to end so that's
every way you know you get the data it's how
you manipulate the data analyze the data um you
know how you you know make decisions or enforce
rules and standards and practices um and H how
do you know what you don't know and get a person
involved when it's necessary in order to ensure
a 100% accurate outcome but then how you write up
uh the decision right it's got to be completely
defensible and explainable and understandable it
can't be some kind of technical metric it's
got to be a narrative that colleagues could
understand the boss can understand Regulators can
understand and and that explainability issue is a
problem with generative AI because not even people
that built it can explain how it works really but
you can show the work the showing the work I think
is the key so you know if you're able to say you
know this is a fact that I used to determine that
we could close this alert as a false positive and
I can show you where I pulled that fact from and
I can highlight the passage and show it in context
so that the person can understand it and it
either is a great accelerator for them making the
decision themselves or it's a a way of trusting
an automated outcome uh so can you walk us
through a a use case uh so that the audience has
a better grasp of what we're talking about so the
simplest type of use case would be what we call
sanction screening right so especially with the
the Ukraine war and all the sanctions that came
out of it there's a huge Spike um in the number of
entities and the number of transactions that could
be subject to sanction and they need to be checked
to make sure that they're not before the activity
is allowed to continue and the problem is there's
a huge number of false positives in in all these
domains there's a structural problem with the
Upstream alerting systems they they have you know
a millisecond to make a decision they have very
little information to go on they cast the widest
net possible um problem is it creates the needle
and a Hy stack effect so the primary P purpose of
our digital workers is to gather those alerts and
if it's easy to make the decision because the you
know the the wide net that was cast when looked
at just a little bit more closely you can tell
that it was a false positive to do so and close
those alerts without any further scrutiny um and
a good example might be you you have a name that's
embedded in a street and the sanctioned entity is
a company um so just because they share a word or
two in common with a street name doesn't mean
that this payment or entity can't can't be um
can't proceed so you know being able to look at
that know it's an address know that it's a street
name know that it's not related to the company
or entity in question let's you take other easy
ones off the table right um on top of that you
then you have to start thinking about what does
a person do uh a person uses judgment and you
know looks at names and says yeah yeah there
may be a number of words in this name that are
in common with a sanction entity but these words
aren't important right they're common words like
bank or you know um LLC or Corp or you know it's
noise words right so doing that kinds of stop word
analysis can also help you take easy ones off the
table when you're done with that then you start
doing investigation work right you start you know
um either using curated data sources like Thompson
Reuters Lexus Nexus and the like or you use open
sources and use Google and Microsoft to search the
broader web and and gather facts to support uh the
either approval or disapproval of the a business
activity so having all that done by machine is
certainly possible and and the important part is
that it at a point where there's an ambiguity that
can't be resolved through any of these techniques
that it's time to get a person involved to take a
second look at it but at least all the digital
paper chase has been completed before they're
asked to make a decision and the most important
elements are highlighted and stack ranked so that
they can make the decision very quickly there
are a lot of other AI systems or flavors of AI
before you use generative AI why why generative
generative AI so we we use a combination um we
find that you know classical techniques uh for
AI can are you know thousand times cheaper and uh
you know a thousand times faster than gen yeah
but when you get to the point where you might
otherwise get a person involved um especially
if you know the the classical AI is right on the
confidence bubble where it's pretty sure it's not
a problem but it needs a second pair of eyes to
be sure sometimes gen can uh provide that second
pair of eyes and you know for certainly at least
close calls that's a good tiebreaker um and if
it can't then a person gets involved as the last
I was talking to a company the other day their
product is called Argus it Maps relationships
between entities and it's being used to track
for example uh components and and where they're
being sold so that you know you're not selling
through a front company to a sanctioned entity
do you guys do anything like that sure so one
of the things that you do is you analyze um
what's called ultimate beneficial ownership to see
who controls some of these entities because who
controls them is as is as important as who they
are at least on the surface um so yeah following
that kind of ubl um you know backward analysis to
see who's really pulling the strings is one of the
important elements but also using things like the
open search and the curated data sources to look
for additional connections between entities is
also really important yeah uh but but again geni
is not necessarily the best tool for that um you
know it it tends to hallucinate uh they're more
powerful kinds of search uh unless you you know I
was talking to a company yesterday that's that's
building its own index of the web um outside
of the big search engines uh that that's very
curated uh according to Authority and accuracy and
that sort of thing so so you you can use their gen
model uh to search and be confident that that
the the response that's coming back is grounded
uh how do you get around the the hallucination
problem if you're using gen AI in this capacity so
one way is to just use the hybrid approach right
and the hybrid approach is the the the Triad I
was talking about with people and classical Ai and
not just geni um so that you have you know a panel
essentially making a decision instead of just one
element making a decision but it's it's also not
to just try to use it to replace all these types
of functions right so another way in which we use
gen is when one thing that's very important for us
is being able to um extract structured data from
unstructured natural stock and so one way in which
we use gen is for these types of documents you
need to train the models with supervised examples
labeled documents and um you know it's pretty good
at actually creating the labeled documents from
zero shot but what we still do is we have people
review the labeling to make sure that the labeling
is accurate and then the labeled documents are
used to train the classical Ai and the classical
AI is what's used for the heavy lifting of most
of the activities of runtime so really using gen
more to replace the manual labor involved with
the supervised labeling than to replace it for
doing the processing at one time and you are using
agents they they they you they break something
into subtasks and then act on the sub test and
then bring all that back uh to the human uh for
review how how are you building are you building
those agents yourself or are you licensing agents
that that other companies have build so the agents
themselves are are what we build and most of
these like I said are the the heart of them
is not gen it's it's classic AI um and but what
we do find is that there's other areas where the
of interaction with The Human Experience is quite
useful for Gen right so um one way in which people
might steer our product is by creating rules right
it's it's always better to use a rule when it's
a directed decision that's based upon standards
and procedures and there otherwise you're trying
to you know train a decision model um to ASM
totically approach the rule as opposed to be the
rule and and so knowing when to use you know an
AI model and when to use a rule is is an important
part of what we do but when you are trying to
ingest these standards and practices they're often
in um you know documents that are given to people
for training um likewise if a person is trying to
sit down it may be quite easy to author a rule
it's kind of similar to entering formulas into
an Excel spreadsheet but it's still intimidating
to defeat the blank page the first time you try it
so to be able to express in natural language the
rule you're trying to give like something like you
know I want to escalate immediately all payments
over a million dollars that are a real-time grow
settlement payment where the pay is either
in Russia or within you know 250 miles of the
Russian border you know writing that rule might be
intimidating for someone the first time they sit
down right it's just like if you ever can remember
back the first time you used Lotus 123 or Excel it
was probably a little intimidating even if you're
just trying to do something simple like create
a p&l or a budget so um having the ability of
talking to the generative Ai and saying that's my
rule and then seeing it appear in the structured
form on the screen where you can just approve it
and say yes I see how it's unambiguous now and
that's exactly what I meant it's a great way of
interacting with no code features of a platform
to steer Its Behavior yeah and and your clients
are big financial institutions uh are you do you
have a platform that that uh that they log into
and use or are you more of a a consulting company
that's Building thepoke Solutions um uh that then
run on Prem I mean that's another issue with all
of this uh kind of data is that a lot of companies
for compliance reasons can't allow to leave the
premises how do you work so we we've put a lot
of energy into building a platform and we call it
work Ai and it's what all the digital workers are
based upon and it's what provides these Primitives
like getting data rules document extraction you
know machine learning models building the ux
for the human in the loop collaboration and
so on all of these things are done using the work
AI platform and the digital workers leverage all
these Primitives in order to you know do this
end to-end automation that I'm talking about
and then some people um use just the platform
and they build their own custom digital worker
but still on the platform using these kind of no
code features so we've actually got a number of
customers that are not in financial services that
are still important to us that that use just the
platform but uh every bank that we deal with looks
at the standard digital workers first because it's
lower risk and faster time to value and it's
often an area where they have a lot of pain
today especially with the bump and sanctions that
we had last year everyone was trying to deal with
how do we handle this you know dramatic increase
and sanctions alerts and they couldn't hire people
fast enough especially with the you know the great
resignation and labor shortages and the the work
of you know waiting through the Hast stack looking
for the needles it's just not fun right so a lot
of people don't want to do the work and as soon as
they get good at it they wind up moving on so it's
a Perpetual problem trying to keep enough people
uh on the problem and that's where we start but
the the heart of it is a platform part the second
part of the thing that you asked was what about
the deployment apologies so you know again what
we've done is we we need to look at what these
Enterprise customers need and we offer the product
as a SAS manage service type of offering so you
know smaller smaller companies can be put into a
multi-tenant environment but larger institutions
if we are going to manage it for them it's always
with a uh dedicated virtual private Cloud for them
yeah we also allow people to put it into their
own virtual private Cloud just as easily and we
support people running it in a kind of classic
data center on Prem so we we support all the
deployment apologies for for customers yeah I just
had a conversation before this with somebody at a
consulting company that that works on generative
AI for financial services and and he was saying
that they use Azure because Azure has all he
built-in protections as opposed to uh you know
using some other uh Cloud inter mediary to reach
uh uh proprietary models like gbd4 is is that
the sort of thing that that you're talking about
when you say private virtual Cloud yeah so um you
know all the major Cloud companies have virtual
private Cloud where it's a dedicated environment
with very controlled network access and very
controlled resources that are only for the
entity that controls that virtual private Cloud
so it's not comingled at any layer um with anyone
else's information um you know so we can create a
virtual private Cloud on behalf of a single bank
but Banks can also have their own virtual private
cloud with a bunch of their systems in it they're
often running in some kind of hybrid model between
classic data centers and these new virtual private
clouds that are connected to them with you know
um pointto Point secure networks you you have a
paper uh on fighting fraud uh with AI can can you
sort of walk us through the thesis of that paper
so essentially the idea is that it's mostly in the
curated experiences that are combining people and
gen where the intersection becomes important so um
and there's areas where the Gen is going to even
exceed some of the capabilities of the classic
AI even if it has other limitations and has
other kinds of cost and performance constraints
so you know if you look at adverse media for
example that's that's one of the problems that
we also solve right and when you know when a
company is doing business with a new entity they
want to know is there any dirt out there on this
entity that means they don't want to do business
with them and this can take many forms it can be
things like arrest records and lawsuits and it can
be things like um high-profile departures it can
be you know uh Personnel of the company being uh
convicted of either a financial crime or a serious
you know moral crime that disqualifies them as a
potential customer business partner vendor Etc and
so it's a it's a hard problem because you know
as you can imagine you know if you Google your
own name you'll find many articles out there and
so you have to go through a process of first of
all targeting the search so you're not picking
up so much noise second that you have to read
through every article and understand is this
really The Entity that we're concerned with or
is it a similarly named entity or even the same
name entity in a different jurisdiction right and
then it's how is this entity involved in this
article so there could be an article about a
financial crime where you're the victim uh not the
perpetrator and so obviously that shouldn't count
against you um or there could be a an arrest
report where you were arrested for disorderly
conduct um because you at a political protest
and uh that's certainly not disqualifying either
so you know the these these things uh take a lot
of time so our classic models use classic NLP in
order to solve these problems one way in which gen
can be helpful uh is whenever there's an article
that really can't be definitively ascertained um
gen can take a crack at it and it can follow some
transitive references across a document that are
difficult for classic NP to resolve right so you
know as a person you have no problem following
these transitive references across an entire
document the the pronouns the subtle Illusions
and so on and sometimes these things even span
documents they can refer back to an article that
came out in the news yesterday uh assuming you
read it or you can click on the link and you
can go read that so gen tends to be very good
at pulling that information together it's also
when used properly can show the work and that work
that's shown can be passed through the classic
Model again to refine the results further which
models do you guys use we focus on three different
models right now um we we wind up having a lot of
you know things in the platform where we have to
make it pluggable because we have to accommodate
our customers right so we don't just focus on
Azure for example as you were saying earlier we
also support gcp Google cloud and um and Amazon
it's just uh you know the cost of doing business
because people are going to make strategic bets on
one cloud provider versus another and they don't
want you you know bending their operation to your
will they want you to adapt to their operation
it's the same thing with llms right so if
someone's an Azure shop they'd like to use the you
know uh open AI technology you know uh as hosted
through azer um if they're a Google shop they'd
like to use the Google Technologies right the palm
and and the upcoming Gemini some customers are
extremely conservative as we've also said and they
want a completely private uh large language model
uh mistol is the one that we're focused on for
the private use cases so yeah it's got to be
pluggable at every layer at the cloud layer
deployment topology layer at the llm layer
and and with the open source for example mrr do
you um do do you create an instance of the model
and fine-tune it on their data or are you just
accessing it the the open source model through AP
I how how do you do that well first you know
it's um there's a technology we use called
Lang chain um I know if you've heard of it but for
pluggability layer LMS yeah and um and then we we
don't just plug in the models but we also curate
different kinds of prompting and information
pipelining into the models depending upon the
the the LM in question um and yes in some cases
you know further training um again the LM or just
providing more example data in the mix uh is a key
uh to getting it to perform what are some of the
classes of of financial crime the the sort of the
the most of your customers are are facing or are
grappling with there must be you know in the bell
curve sort of in the middle of it there what what
what kinds of crimes are they working on so um
the first big ones and that are the easiest
ones to get started with are the sanctions
pep screening adverse media screening whe and the
sanctions whether it's transactions whether it's
entities that are being onboarded that's the easy
ones to do because there's a lot of volume there's
a lot of regulatory pressure that's increasing
workloads and it's very it's very standardized
uh in general compared to other types of
financial crime fighting the second one is kyc so
kyc is just it's an enormous problem um there's
a lot of subtlety to the work that has to be
done um and you know we we see that being a big
pocket of spend within Banks we have some banks
have thousands of people doing kyc in one form
or another so um we're we're really uh proud of
what we've been doing in what we call pkc and pkc
stands the p for Perpetual um there's been talk
about this in the past in the industry but it's
actually there's been some pretty high-profile
failures on pkc and the reason was that most of
the energy went into acquiring the the data the
signal that could be a problem but not in actually
automatically acting upon that data or signal and
as a result they're just created a huge backlog
of case work that would no one was ever getting
to and they would just revert to doing the period
perodic refreshes every few years or you know more
or less depending upon the risk profile of the
customer just doing a complete case review and
it's actually terrible because you actually had
data that showed you you had a problem so you have
a you should have known and you should have acted
kind of problem even though you didn't have the
capacity to do so so what we've focused on is how
can we actually look at the events and determine
that an event has either been seen before um and
so therefore doesn't need to be looked at again
or it is not it's a lowrisk signal and with just
some subtle analysis can be determined that it's
not a problem and taken off the table so that all
you're left with is high-risk signals and then to
be able to actually when a when a high-risk signal
is present um be able to completely run a straight
through process on the kyc itself for a low-risk
entity at least and um be able to take that off
the table entirely unless there's something
to see here so you know k kyc it's an enormous
problem but if you can get the lowrisk signals
and entities off the table you can reduce it by
up to 80% and that could be you know an enormous
savings um it also can allow you to fundamentally
move the needle on risk because I think a lot of
people feel like kyc is a bit of a check the boox
regulatory exercise and doesn't fun fundamentally
move it but when you're responding to things in
real time it actually can save you quite a lot of
bit a lot of trouble can you give a an example of
a success of uh you know in the kyc space where
something popped up and you and you prevented a
bank from engaging with somebody that was a
problem sure I mean it it happens every day
right so it's finding out that um someone actually
has ties to a drug cartel or you know finding out
that someone is actually a Russian oligarch
even though they presented a UK passport when
they open the account um and stopping the bank
from doing business with them and you know not
just you know one uh one point for the good guys
when those things happen but it also if the bank
doesn't stop it um the finds exposure is enormous
what's the throughput on the platform because
they're dealing with hundreds if not thousands
of entities a day uh in in with this uh pkc
uh it's it's a realtime monitoring I guess uh so
how does the you know the bank has the platform
they upload uh a a bunch of documentation um and
then what happens the platform goes out does a
search does an analysis presents stuff to one of
their compliant people who reviews it but then is
continually monitoring uh the keywords or whatever
for that customer and if something comes along the
compliance officer gets an alert I mean how it
just how does that work so one way it can work
is simply doing what a person would do but doing
it very quickly right and doing it without a human
touch um and pulling the information looking
at the information checking against the file
um doing trans action analysis doing you know a
news analysis Etc and then nothing to see here
it's done you're done for the day um it can be
more powerful when you have uh curated information
providers that actually also have an event driven
capability so for example when we work with
Thompson Reuters they have a continuous monitoring
facility and that continuous monitoring facility
rather than us having to repeat the entire cycle
for the entities in the population on on a rapid
but still somewhat periodic basis even if you're
saying periodic is a day it's periodic um we're
able to go to them and find only the what's new
over the last 24 hours over the last eight hours
um which is much more scalable than having to
repeat the entire process and like you say some
of these um companies have millions if not tens
of millions and reaching a 100 million entities
in the relationship portfolio so it is important
that it be as scalable as possible are you is the
US government one of your customers because this
sounds uh very similar to to what the intelligence
communities spend their time doing so we we have
been working with Partners um into the government
channel it's complex to get into the government
Channel um and we're hoping to do more in that
space primarily though today it's been Banks
is there something I'm not talking about that's
that's important to the story well one thing
we could talk about is investigations and um
you know when the investigation does involve more
interactive uh session with a with an investigator
as opposed to purely the digital worker maybe
that would be a good thing to talk about yeah yeah
we'll tell me about that so um some investigations
um you're going to want to have a person involved
but you know it can take for some some kinds of
Investigations when you're talking about either
anti-money laundering investigations or fraud
alerts or other types of compliance um activity
monitoring you know the the amount of work
that people do and how manual it can be is just
unbelievable right so you got people downloading
transaction data and doing pivot tables in Excel
and trying to look at you know whether there
are unusual transactions and whether there are
is a high percentage of cash transactions whether
there appear to be any circular payment structures
or other kinds of structuring in place and you
know it saves a lot of effort simply to pull all
this information from a wide variety of sources
and put it into the form where it's actionable
without having this kind of excel kind of uh
step in the process and many people especially
with these high-risk investigations they'd much
rather see a dosier that's been assembled by the
digital worker and have that dossier stack rank
the most important factors right and so the most
important factors obviously would be things
that uh haven't been seen before at least for
this particular customer it would be things that
are the most uh significant red flags as defined
by you know various standards and procedures or
or models and which things are the most anomalous
right there unusual activity that clearly merits
a closer look all these types of things can be
stacked ranked and then the investigator can
focus on the material issues but there could
be thousands of factors that were looked at
and considered that then are collapsible um
yet investigators will have their own theory of
the case when they're investigating a case and
they wouldn't necessarily want to stop with just
the most material factors and they might have a
series of questions they they might want to say
things like did you look at the percentage of cash
transactions that this customer is doing and be
able to get an answer on what the percentage was
is this unusually high for this customer or is
it consistent with their activity over the last
few years is this unusually high for my entire
customer base is this unusually high for other
entities like this I mean what's unusual for a
pizza shop uh in Boston is not what's unusual
for a multinational manufacturing concern uh in
in in that's headquartered in California so this
kind of Distinction and this kind of Co analysis
is something that a Savvy investigator looks at
and just having someone who's got all the answers
who's looked at all the factors but you can use
your own judgment on whether you want to consider
those factors as even if they're not red flags as
part of building uh you know a case to either um
confirm or or you know or or satisfy your concerns
a lot of that sounds like classical AI although
I guess if you have a a generative AI interface
it's easier to query the system certainly easier
to create a u you know more readable and succinct
uh narrative that is giving you the synopsis of
all these different factors and it's a lot easier
to navigate when you're able to ask questions and
get answers instead of having to weed through and
you know do search which can be you know a
kind of crude tool for trying to find these
factors you guys have been around for a while
uh but the the the tech is evolving very quickly
uh is that difficult for you to keep up with with
what's happening I guess that's your job right
specifically yeah it is it's it is difficult to
keep up with it but it's also exciting and it's
the opportunity yeah because if it was easy
everybody be doing it do you have a sales job
to do yourself internally uh to say look uh we
we should be using this uh you know and and I
I would imagine there's a lot of risk involved
reputational risk if you implement some tool or
methodology uh that that you know these Financial
Services firms are relying on well I mean number
one the the financial services firms themselves
are all asking these questions and hoping for
Solutions in this realm and just looking for
guidance on how to do it safely so that's
where a lot of our energy goes into is making it
safe making it governable making repeatable un
explainable um and they keep us honest because
nobody just takes our Solutions and puts them
straight into production they go through rigorous
you know uat user acceptance testing processes and
um they gather statistics on the decisions it
makes they actually co-pilot um decisions with
actual human users for a period of time socialize
that it works well have people you know Sound the
Alarm if they see something that looks off right
and um you know they continue to do this kind of
review even after it goes live they they take
you know different subsets of of the cases and
they investigate some of them in by hand more
intensively to double check the machine um you
know lower risk ones maybe less so and they do
this over time so that they can you know respond
to the evolving threat environment but also make
sure that it's not going off track at any point
along the way they they use the statistics that
they get through these types of um testing and
co-piloting procedures to you know build their
model risk management reports which is um very
burdensome but also helps keep everything safe
right by you know exhaustively testing comparing
results looking for any signs of error explaining
how it works and so on is this um a crowded market
for you guys or or are there just a handful of
players so there's some players that are more
a Consulting shop that get involved and they start
from scratch in your environment and train only on
your data and you know our proposition is that we
show up ready to work and that's highly valued by
people also a lot of the other companies that are
do business in this space tend to um be one-trick
ponies and you know banks in particular like to
deal with strategic vendors that can help them
with the whole portfolio of problems and not just
one problem and that works to our advantage is
your customer base primarily a us uh institutions
and and do the com compliance issues I would guess
that they're they're different depending on
what Market you're working in so we do have
a slight um you know slightly higher number
of us-based Institutions than International
but we have significant presence in Europe and a
growing presence in the Middle East in particular
um most of our customers are Global in scope so
you know even if they are headquartered in the
US they have divisions around the world so as a
result they're all all subject to you know this
multi-jurisdictional regulatory regime so when we
work with these large companies that it helps us
when we're working with a smaller company that's
in a more limited set of jurisdictions because
we've already got it cover yeah on the sanctions
of tracking sanction companies are there many
examples of financialist Institutions that end
up getting fined heavily because they didn't know
their customer or or you know ended up processing
a transaction uh that unbeknownst to them was with
a sanctioned entity yeah uh failing to enforce
sanctions results in big fines but what results
and even larger fines is having material
weaknesses in your um enforcement regime
right so you know if you're not doing something
that's considered a best practice um then you're
going to be in a lot worse trouble uh than if you
were doing everything you could and someone made
a mistake it's after all still a human business
uh at the end of the day um we also see you know
the reputational risk is pretty big right being
associated with money laundering or you know drug
trafficking or you know Terror financing is
not something anybody wants to see their name
and prints around uh so there's these kind of
non-financial hits that are also quite so good
thing I think the last thing is people in trying
to you know respond to margin pressure um you know
without automation they wind up trying to drive
investigators to do casework far too fast to be
responsible so we've had people that we've helped
that before we arrived we're trying to process
hundreds or even a thousand cases a day and if you
just do the math on that I mean per investigator
you just do the math on things like that even if
you're just looking at a particular transaction
to see if it's a sanction entity you can hardly
watch a screen paint and click no that fast you
right so Regulators pay attention to that as well
and so one of the things that we're doing is we're
eliminating all these you know noise hits so that
people can have the time to focus on doing a good
job on the investigations that are risk yeah is
there a periodic auditing by Regulators or is it
when something slips through and and there's a
fine that The Regulators then go back and look
at the proceeds processes and decide whether or
not the the bank was was doing things correctly
it's it's annual reviews that get done um
and they also uh you know there's different
government entities that do the Audits and they
rotate the different audit teams in into customers
so that they don't get too cozy and so that they
don't deepen the ruts right of the invest of the
audits so this really provides you know excellent
compliance checking on the part of our Regulators
is your sense that with the increasing power and
pervasiveness of AI not only generative AI the the
financial system is is getting buttoned up so that
it's increasingly difficult to perpetrate fraud
or to for a sanction to entity to to operate
in in the mainstream Financial system it is
increasingly difficult and that's great news
for all of us right because these sanctions
and um anti-money laundering Etc are in place to
catch a wide variety of deep ills in the world
but the thing that it's not all good news um
it's a double-edged sword these Technologies
and these Technologies can also be used to help
cover tracks um so it's an arms race you have to
stay really on top of it to stay one step ahead
of you know those who wish us ill and and do do
you track crypto transactions is that in your
remit we we're not currently that involved in
crypto itself um there's some firms that really
specialize in that aspect but you know some
s if there's an entity um you know where the
wallet meets the world is where we would get
involved that's it for today's episode I want
to thank Peter for his time if you want to read
a transcript of the conversation today you can
find one on our website that's e o n. AI in the
meantime remember the singularity may not be near
but AI is changing your world to pay attention